Chapter 2
THE dignity of Jimmy Green was not to be lightly taken.

What he heard from the pair of them made his head swim. It was as though his innumerable battles with sticks, stones, and fists had been no more than the triumphs of dreams. It was as though some other lad in Fort Anxious were able to run faster, shoot straighter, hit harder.

He turned, infuriated as he realized that all these things were true about himself alone. He shouted in a ringing voice:

"Hey, Sammy! Hey, Sam!"

But Sam and the half-breed walked on, their heads close together, still enchanted, as it were, by the same topic.

"What is a pug nose good for?"

Jimmy Green, breathing very hard, stared after them for some time. He could not understand it. Was not this his town? According to his royal pleasure the lives of boys became acceptable or noxious. Even the sons of the richest men at the fort hastened at the call of Jimmy Green.

Slowly, therefore, he wondered what madness could have possessed Sam Ward, otherwise not an unworthy boy. And he turned upon his bare foot again, grimly promising to himself the luxury and the delight of knocking holes through Sammy.

Ahead, he heard an outbreak of violent voices, turning a corner. They were on his side of the street. Young Jimmy turned instantly to the farther side. He kicked the ribs of the wolf dog and whanged him two or three times with the loaded butt of the whip just to assure the brute that he, Jimmy Green, was on hand and was master.

The cause which made the dog skulk so far away now came around the corner. Jimmy saw in the lead four trappers, the sweeping manes and tails of their horses braided with stained shells, with feathers, and with glittering trinkets; and their clothes, especially the soft deerskin trousers, covered with decorations. They wore long hair that swept about their shoulders. Their hats were off and hanging on the sides of their saddles. Their horses were not large, but finely formed, with eyes that shone with high spirits and mischief—true mustangs. Every movement they made flashed with their golden and silver ornaments.

The boy could have stood and enjoyed the sight of them, another day. He could even have run along beside them and laughed and joked with them. But now it was very different, for he had with him a thing which every eye in that train could appraise and rightly value—such a dog as never had leaned against a collar in any freight train that ever hauled over the whiter snows into Fort Anxious. So he kept the dog well to one side on short chain as the cavalcade went by.

They saw him at once. Or rather, they saw the dog, and they came with a whoop. They could take now, and pay next winter. That was their usual system! They came yelling. They raced for a prize, and the first one to touch the dog would be its owner. That agreement was understood as they jammed the spurs into their horses.

Young Jimmy Green looked at them as if they had been so many fiends leaning over the pommels of their saddles. But, as they came nearer, while Jimmy was still wondering whether or not he should try to use his knife, or simply let the dog go with them, they sat up in their saddles and split to either side of him as water splits against a rock. They dashed by with shouts and with loud laughter, making a great joke of this affair, but the boy guessed that their mirth was an afterthought. He turned, and he saw behind him the Cree, Awaskees, smiling gently, a rifle lying carelessly across the hollow of his left arm.

"Thank you, Father," said Jimmy Green in Cree.

Awaskees muttered something which cannot be translated in the whole, but which meant: "May there always be fire in your lodge, a filled meat pot over the fire, tobacco in your pipe, smoke in your nose, and a fat dog for your squaw to roast!"

This very inclusive "good morning" was given as Awaskees stepped on across the street, and no one uninitiated could have guessed that his coming up behind the boy had been intentional, or that his rifle had split that gay charge of dog thieves. However, Jimmy Green knew very well, and he looked after the soft-stepping Cree and vowed that he would remember.

He had barely turned the next corner when, with a series of war whoops, a crowd of a dozen boys boiled out of an alley, dragging another youngster in their midst. He hesitated, ready to drop even the chain of the dog and flee at full speed; but as the boys came nearer, he could see that they were members of his own "tribe," of which he was the undisputed chief. He was seen. They poured toward him.

"Hey, look, Jimmy! Look what we got! We got Mickey Dugan. He was clean across to our side of the bridge. Hey, Jimmy, whacha think? We're gunna scalp him and give him a ducking!"

Mickey Dugan, ragged, almost, as Jimmy himself, was one of the leading spirits of the tribe which represented the other half of the town. His capture was no small event, and Mickey bore himself very well, head high, disdainful, but a little green in the face. To be "scalped" was not actually to have the hair of his head removed, but the process was almost as painful and as long remembered. To be ducked was, for such a strong boy, almost to be drowned. It was a great victory, but something in the eye of Mickey held the attention of Jimmy.

"What was he doing?" he asked.

"He was—whacha think?—fishin' behind Mrs. Villar's house. Tryin' to sneak some fish out of our side of the river!"

Jimmy stepped closer to Mickey and looked him in the eye. And Mickey looked dauntlessly back. Thrice they had fought. Victory had been undecided twice. Once, because Mickey's father had lurched out and kicked him homeward; once, because Jimmy's crowd had charged. And the third time victory had inclined to Jimmy's side, but it had cost him a large, beautiful eye which still was represented by a faint purple line. However, the soul of Jimmy was just.

"Hey, Mickey," said he, "whacha come fishin' on our side of the river for, hey?"

"None of your dang business," said Mickey, "and if I had my hands loose, I'd black up both your eyes."

Jimmy moistened his lips with the tip of his tongue. But he merely said again: "What sentcha over to our side of the river this time of day when you might've knowed that we'd see you?"

This challenge launched against his intelligence stung Mickey to answer.

"The old man wanted fish for breakfast, and he give me five minutes or a lickin'. They ain't bitin' on our side, this time of the day!"

"Humph!" said Jimmy, and shifted from one foot to the other. With all his soul he yearned to see this great and dangerous enemy scalped and ducked, but something raised in his eye the brutal picture of Mickey's drunken father.

"He sent you out to catch fish, eh? Where's your line?"

Mickey disdained answer.

"I got it," admitted a wide-shouldered clansman. "I seen him first. It belongs to me by rights."

"Give it back to him," said Jimmy slowly.

The other quailed, and producing the precious string and hook, held it forth. Jimmy took it.

"Leave his hands go," said Jimmy.

A wild uproar arose. They protested that it was a fair capture. They demanded justice.

"Whacha mean?" yelled Jimmy, pink with rage. "Didn't his old man send him? Ain'tcha got no sense? Leave his hands go, I say!"

They loosed his hands. If they obeyed Jimmy, it was because they knew the weight of his fists.

"Here's your line," said Jimmy Green. "G'wan and get, will ya? Hey, Louis! G'wan and get your fish spear, will ya, and give him a hand. His old man sent him. You don't want Mickey licked for nothin', do ya?"

